Add Okta SAML guide (#1887)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/docs/v1/tech/identity-providers/samlv2/okta-saml.adoc

---
layout: doc
title: SAML v2 with Okta
description: Configure SAML v2 for Okta
navcategory: login-methods
---

:sectnumlevels: 0

== Configure SAML v2 for Okta

This documentation will guide you in configuring SAML v2 IdP for Okta. In this case, FusionAuth will act as Service Provider (SP) to Okta (IdP). Functionally, the result will allow you to display a [uielement]#Login with Okta# button on your FusionAuth application's login page and connect via SAML to Okta users/applications.

image:identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-result.png[result-intro,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

== Prerequisites

> * A FusionAuth instance running on a publicly accessible URL. You can spin up a link:/pricing[basic FusionAuth Cloud instance] or link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/[install it on any server].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A FusionAuth instance running on a publicly accessible URL. You can spin up a link:/pricing[basic FusionAuth Cloud instance], use link:/docs/v1/tech/developer-guide/exposing-instance[ngrok], or link:/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/[install it on any server].
```

* An link:https://www.okta.com/free-trial/[Okta Workforce Identity Cloud account] connected to a business email address.

> ** The link:https://help.okta.com/eu/en-us/Content/Topics/end-user/ov-overview.htm?cshid=csh-user-ov-overview[Okta Verify app] if your Okta account is not configured to send SMS messages for 2FA.

Reviewer: Why do we need 2fa here?

== Okta Configuration

> Log in to Okta and navigate to the [uielement]#Admin# panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Log in to Okta and navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Admin# panel.
```

If you are navigating someplace, use breadcrumb. If it is a field, use field. If it is in the UI but anything else, use uielement.

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-attribute-statements.png[attribute statements,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

Click [uielement]#Next#, select one of the radio buttons on the [breadcrumb]#Feedback# tab, and click [uielement]#Finish#. Scroll to the bottom of the following page and click the [uielement]#View SAML setup instructions# button. You will need to provide the information on this page to FusionAuth, so keep it open in a separate tab or window.

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-configuration-details.png[saml configuration details,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

Return to the previous window and navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Assignments# tab. Click [uielement]#Assign# and then [uielement]#Assign to People#.

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-assign-to-people.png[assign to people,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

Click the [uielement]#Assign# button next to the user you would like to authenticate. Click [uielement]#Save and Go Back#, then [uielement]#Done#.

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-assign-button.png[assign button,width=1200]

== FusionAuth Configuration

> From your FusionAuth dashboard, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Key Master# and click the downward arrow next to [uielement]#Generate Elliptic#. Then click [uielement]#Import Certificate#.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a new tab and go to your FusionAuth dashboard.

From your FusionAuth dashboard, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Key Master# and click the downward arrow next to [uielement]#Generate Elliptic#. Then click [uielement]#Import Certificate#.
```

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-import-certificate.png[import certificate,width=1200]

Give this key a [field]#Name#, for example, `OKTA SAML`. Then, copy the [field]#X.509# certificate from the Okta [breadcrumb]#SAML setup instructions# page that you left open previously. Paste it into the [field]#Certificate# box in the FusionAuth Key Master and [uielement]#Submit#.

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-paste-certificate.png[paste certificate,width=1200]

Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> Identity Providers# and add a new `SAML v2` identity provider.

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-new-idp.png[new identity provider,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

Provide a [field]#Name#, for example, `OKTA SAML`. For the [field]#IdP endpoint#, paste the [field]#Identity Provider Single Sign-On URL# from the Okta [breadcrumb]#SAML setup instructions# page. For the verification key, select from the dropdown the name of the key you just created in the Key Master. Optionally, change the [field]#Button text# to `Login with Okta`.

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-new-idp-settings.png[new idp settings,width=1200]

> Make sure your application has the [uielement]#Enabled# switch toggled. Then, navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Options# tab and supply the names that you chose for the [field]#user.Id# and [field]#user.email# attribute statements in Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure your application has the [field]#Enabled# switch toggled. Then, navigate to the [breadcrumb]#Options# tab and supply the names that you chose for the [field]#user.Id# and [field]#user.email# attribute statements in Okta.
```

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-claim-options.png[claim options,width=1200]

> Hit [uielement]#Save# and [uielement]#View# the identity provider you just created. Scroll down to the [breadcrumb]#SAML v2 Integration details# section and record these values so you can supply them to Okta.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hit [uielement]#Save#. Then [uielement]#view# the identity provider you just created (using the green magnifying glass). Scroll down to the [breadcrumb]#SAML v2 Integration details# section and record these values so you can supply them to Okta.
```

Reviewer: Which values do you need to record? All of them? Please list them out here.

Reviewer 2: This has been updated to read: 
"Hit [uielement]#Save# and [uielement]#View# the identity provider you just created. Scroll down to the [breadcrumb]#SAML v2 Integration details# section and record the [field]#Callback URL (ACS)# and [field]#Issuer# values so you can supply them to Okta."

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-integration-details.png[integration details,width=1200]

> If you receive a warning after saving the identity provider, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> System# and add your Okta URL to the [field]#Allowed origins# list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may receive a warning after saving the identity provider.
```

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-cors-warning.png[cors warning,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you receive such a warning after saving the identity provider, navigate to [breadcrumb]#Settings -> System# and add your Okta URL to the [field]#Allowed origins# list. This configures FusionAuth to send the correct CORS headers.

```

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-cors-settings.png[cors settings,width=1200]

Return to your Okta dashboard. Navigate to [breadcrumb]#Applications -> Your Application# and edit the [breadcrumb]#SAML Settings#.

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-edit-saml-settings.png[edit SAML settings,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

> Click [uielement]#Next# to get to the [breadcrumb]#Configure SAML# tab. Replace the [field]#Single sign-on URL# with the [field]#Callback URL (ACS)# integration detail from FusionAuth. Replace the [field]#Audience URI (SP Entity ID)# with the [field]#Issuer# integration detail from FusionAuth. Click [uielement]#Next# and [uielement]#Finish# to save these settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click [uielement]#Next# to get to the [breadcrumb]#Configure SAML# tab. Replace the [field]#Single sign-on URL# with the [field]#Callback URL (ACS)# value from FusionAuth. Replace the [field]#Audience URI (SP Entity ID)# with the [field]#Issuer# value from FusionAuth. Click [uielement]#Next# and then [uielement]#Finish# to save these settings.
```

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-settings-from-fusionauth.png[settings from fusionauth,width=1200]

== Testing the Login

To test, navigate to the applications page in FusionAuth. Click on the [uielement]#View# icon (magnifying glass) next to the application you enabled Okta login on and copy the [field]#OAuth IdP login URL# address. Navigate to this address. You should see a [uielement]#Login with Okta# option on your app's sign-in page:

image::identity-providers/okta-saml/okta-saml-result.png[result,width=1200,role=bottom-cropped]

> Click the [uielement]#Login with Okta# button. Test logging in with the username and password, as well as the 2FA method you selected when you configured your account on Okta.

Reviewer: Not sure why 2fa is set up for okta? How does that help the tutorial?

Reviewer 2: Okta enforces using a form of 2FA when creating a new account, so we thought it best to mention it in the guide. 

<img width="428" alt="Screenshot 2023-03-09 at 16 22 51" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4689280/224054251-21b443e3-b201-4a0d-b474-dba311dc3569.png">
